Equity Markets - Orders and Algos 
(source: https://github.com/asim2025/etrading.git)

This document summarizes various order types and algos used in the Equity Markets.  


A.	Order 
	Represents execution instruction.  


B.	Order Types
	- Market Orders
		Trade given quantity at best price possible.
		
	- Limit Orders
		Trade given quantity at a specified price or better.
		
	- Market to Limit Orders
		Market order with a price limit.
		
	- Market with Protection Orders
		Market order with the protection of an inbuilt price limit.
		Extension of Market to Limit orders further away from last execution price.
	
	- Stop Orders
		Contingent on an activation (or stop) price.
		Become a market order when price reaches or exceeds stop point.
		
	- Trailing Stop Orders
		Follows or pegs favorable moves in the market price.	
		Trailing offset is either an actual amount or a percentage change.
		
	- Contingent / if-touched orders
		Hidden until market price moves to activate them.
		
	- Hidden Orders
		Not displayed on LOB.
		Only way to know is to see the result of next executed order.
		One way to find out is to issue IOC orders.
		
	- Iceberg / Reverse Orders
		Small visible peak and significantly large hidden volume.
		Displayed order has normal time priority within LOB.
		Hidden order has only price priority (no time).
		
	- Discretionary Orders
		Limit order with discretionary amount
		Buy orders - limit price plus discretionary amount.
		Sell orders - limit prce minus discretionary amount.
		
	- Pegged Orders
		Dynamic limit price.
		Limit price may track best bid, offer or even mid-price.
		Applies additional offset amount.
		
					
C.	Order Instructions
	- Durations
		GTD - Good Till Date
		GTC - Good Till Cancel
		GAT - Good after Time/Date
	
	- Immediate or Cancel (IOC)
		Execute order immediately or cancel.  
		Partial execution allowed.
	
	- Fill or Kill (FOK)
		Execute order immediately or cancel.
		Must be fully filled (partial executions not allowed).
		
	- All or None (AON)
		Execute full or none.
		No immediate fill requirement (unlike FOK).
		Lower execution priority given to AON orders
		
	- Minimum Volume
		Minimum fill or acceptable quantity.


D.	Algorithms
	Set of instructions for accomplishing a given task.
	
	- Algorithm Categories
		Impact Driven - minimize market impact (i.e. price of an asset).
		Cost Driven - minimize overall trading costs.
		Opportunistic - take advantage when market conditions are favorable.
		
	- TWAP : Time Weighted Average Price
		Impact Driven
		Reflects asset's price changed over time.
		Time based issued at predetermined intervals.
		Signalling risk due to predictable behavior.
				
	- VWAP : Volume Weighted Average Price
		Impact Driven
		Total (volume * price) / Total (volume)
		Trading interval/frequency determined using historical profiles.
		
	- POV : Percentage of Volume
		Impact Driven
		Example, if 20% participation rate then 200k shares of 1mm total shares traded.
		